Terraform installation on Windows Laptop:

1.Go to Hashicorp download page https://www.terraform.io/downloads.html and download windows installer.

2.Run the downloaded installer and set the Path variable so that you can run it from any location/directory from your laptop.

3. To set path follow below steps:

a) Open the Start Search, type in “env”, and choose “Edit the system environment variables”

b) Click the “Environment Variables…” button.

c) Under the “System Variables” section (the lower half), find the row with “Path” in the first column, and click edit.

d) The “Edit environment variable” UI will appear. Here, you can click “New” and type in the new path(where you install terraform exe) you want to add. From this screen you can also edit or reorder them.

e) Dismiss all of the dialogs by choosing “OK”. Your changes are saved!

f) You will probably need to restart apps for them to pick up the change.

NOTE: If you have already installed and configure AWS CLI or python boto/boto3 library then terraform can use your AWS access_key and secret_key from their configuration otherwise you need to specify these values in the providers.tf file so that Teraform can access your AWS account to create required infrastructure.

Important Terraform Commands:

1.Terraform init: The terraform init command is used to initialize a working directory containing Terraform configuration files. This is the first command that should be run after writing a new Terraform configuration files.

Usage: terraform init [options] [DIR]

If no arguments are given, the configuration in the current working directory is initialized. It is recommended to run Terraform with the current working directory set to the root directory of the configuration, and omit the DIR argument.

2.Terraform Plan: The terraform plan command is used to create an execution plan. Terraform performs a refresh and then determines what actions are necessary to achieve the desired state specified in the configuration files.

Usage: terraform plan [options] [dir]

By default, plan requires no flags and looks in the current directory for the configuration and state file to refresh

3.Terraform apply: The terraform apply command is used to apply the changes required to reach the desired state of the configuration, or the pre-determined set of actions generated by a terraform plan execution plan.

Usage: terraform apply [options] [dir-or-plan]

By default, apply scans the current directory for the configuration files and applies the changes appropriately.

4.Terraform destroy: The terraform destroy command is used to destroy the Terraform-managed infrastructure.

Usage: terraform destroy [options] [dir]

Infrastructure managed by Terraform will be destroyed. This will ask for confirmation before destroying.

5.Terraform output: The terraform output command is used to extract the value of an output variable from the state file.

Usage: terraform output [options] [NAME]

With no additional arguments, output will display all the outputs for the root module. If an output NAME is specified, only the value of that output is printed.
